= flextures

* {日本語版ドキュメント(Japanese Document)}[https://github.com/baban/flextures/blob/master/README.ja.rdoc]

== Abstruct

This plug-in aim to resolve many problems, durling rails developping about fixtures.
Basic commands is simple.
Each commands load or dump fixtures.

 rake db:flextures:load
 rake db:flextures:dump

Major different point is four.

1. Fixture file is prefered CSV to YAML.
2. Don't stop load if table colums are'nt match fixture file's column.
3. Fixture file name can change if file name is not equal table name. 
4. Fixture data translate to use filter like factory girl.

== How to install

This program is implemented Rails Plug-in.
You want to install this plug-in.
Please use bundler.

 gem "flextures"

(Development emnvoriment must be ruby1.9 and rails3)

== How to use

=== rake command

load command input fixtures file under "spec/fixtures/".
(Loading directory can change configuration file)

 rake db:flextures:load
 rake db:flextures:dump

rake command can set options.
For example, this option set dump file name.
(Option dump only "users.csv")

 rake db:flextures:dump TABLE=users

If you use this option load command.
Option set load file name.
(loading "users.csv" or "users.yml")

 rake db:flextures:load MODEL=User

Other options...

 TABLE : set table name
 MODEL : set model name
 DIR : set directory name
 FIXTURES : set fixture file name
 FORMAT : dumping format change csv to yaml (aka. ymlload, ymldump command)
 T : alias TABLE option
 M : alias MODEL option
 D : alias DIR option
 F : alias FIXTURES option

if you only load CSV file or YAML file, next command can load.
 
 rake db:flextures:csvload
 rake db:flextures:ymlload
 rake db:flextures:csvdump
 rake db:flextures:ymldump

=== RSpec flexture support

Fixture load function implemented for RSpec.

 describe ItemShopController do
   flextures :users, :items

flexture function can write like a "fixture" function, implemented in RSpec.
But, "flexture" function ignore columns change.

Flextures function can change load file name.

 describe ItemShopController do
   flextures :items, :users => :users_for_itmshop # load "users_for_itemshop.csv"

=== Flextures factory filter

If you create filter file.(File name is "config/flextures.factory.rb")
Factory filter translate fixture data and set database.

For example, this code set current time to last_login_date column.

 Flextures::Factory.define :users do |f| 
   f.last_login_date = DateTime.now
 end



=== Configuration file

Configuration file can change load and dump directory
(file is confi/flextures.config.rb)

 # config/flextures.config.rb
 module Flextures
   # Load and dump directory change "spec/fixtures/" to "test/fixtures/"
   Config.fixture_load_directory = "test/fixtures/"
   Config.fixture_dump_directory = "test/fixtures/"
 end



